# Rules-based syllabification
The purpose of this project is to predict syllable boundaries given the spelling of an English word. It takes a the written representation of a single word as its input, and produces a list of clusters of letters that each roughly represent a single syllable. 

I've used a rules-based system to accomplish this, relying mainly on the Sonority Sequencing Principle and the Maximal Onset Principle, along with conventions of English spelling. The reason I'm relying entirely on spelling without the use of any data in IPA is because I intend to use this algorithm in another project that takes the spelling of proper names as input at a later date. Because the IPA representations of proper names are not always readily available for a variety of reasons (lack of standardized spelling, uniqueness, etc), an approach that considers the spelling alone is ideal for my purposes.

## Testing and limitations
Included in this repo is a file that demonstrates how this algorithm syllabifies common English words. The word list was generated by SCOWL (size 10, no diacritics, all spellings), and was only altered to remove the header -- no words were removed or changed.

In that file, you will see which kinds of words are and are not suitable for syllabification using this method. While this algorithm has a fairly high rate of success given its relative crudeness, it is not able to handle the following categories of words: abbreviations that contain no vowels (like "Mr."), compounds that have a first component ending in 'e' (like "somebody"), words with non-initial syllables that have no onsets (like "pious"), and others.

## Current status
The current version of this project is fully operational, though I intend to make further refinements in the future, particularly to account for words that end with two consonants followed by a silent 'e'.